# Report Week1

## 1. Whats DL?

* The central goal of AI is to provide a set of algorithms and techniques that can be used to solve problems that humans perform intuitively and near automatically.
* machine learning subfield tends to be specifically interested in **pattern recognition** and **learning from data**.
* Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) are a class of machine learning algorithms that learn from data and specialize in pattern recognition, inspired by the structure and function of the brain.
* 3 types "learning":
  * **supervised:** given both a set of inputs and target outputs. The algorithm then tries to learn patterns that can be used to automatically map input data points to their correct target output.
  * **unsupervised: **algorithms try to automatically discover discriminating features without any hints as to what the inputs are.
  * **semi-supervised:** use **hand-engineered** features to quantify the contents of an image(*feature extraction*): FAST, Harris,  DoG, SIFT, SURF, BRIEF, ORB, HOG,...
* **DL:** Instead of hand-defining a set of rules and algorithms to extract features from an image, these features are instead automatically learned from the training process.

## 2. Image Classification

* *"assigning a label to an image from a predefined set of categories"*

* data and datapoint

* The Semantic Gap:

  * The semantic gap is the difference between how a human perceives the contents of an image versus how an image can be represented in a way a computer can understand the process.
  * use **feature extraction** to encode image

* challenge:

  * viewpoint variation
  * scale variation
  * deformation
  * occlusions
  * background clutter
  * intra-class variation

  **==> frame problem, always consider the scope of your image classifier**

* Feature-based Learning versus Deep Learning for Image Classification

## 3. Pineline

* Step #1: Gather Your Dataset
* Step #2: Split dataset:
  * testset: only to evaluate your network.
  * valid set: 10-20%, "fake test set", use for tune hyperparameter
* Step #3: Train Your Network
* Step #4: Evaluate

